>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED
TARGETING OF CONSERVATIVE GROUPS
BY THE I.R.S. "OUTRAGEOUS," AND
VOWED TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
THE SCANDAL.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
EXAMINE THE ALLEGATIONS THE
AGENCY SINGLED OUT GROUPS WITH
THE WORDS "TEA PARTY" OR
"PATRIOT" IN THEIR NAMES.
>> Brown: THEN WE GET THE LATEST
ON THE TRIAL OF THE PHILADELPHIA
ABORTION DOCTOR FOUND GUILTY ON
THREE COUNTS OF FIRST-DEGREE
MURDER.
>> Woodruff: WE TALK TO MARCIA
COYLE ABOUT TODAY'S UNANIMOUS
SUPREME COURT DECISION,
UPHOLDING MONSANTO'S PATENT ON
SOYBEAN SEEDS.
>> Brown: MARGARET WARNER
UPDATES THE WINNERS AND LOSERS
IN SATURDAY'S ELECTION IN
PAKISTAN, MARRED BY VIOLENCE AND
ALLEGATIONS OF VOTE RIGGING.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN
HAS THE STORY OF THE GENOCIDE
CONVICTION OF FORMER GUATEMALAN
DICTATOR EPHRAIM RIOS MONTT, AS
SEEN FROM INSIDE THE COURTROOM
LAST WEEK.
WHEN THE VERDICT WAS READ, TOTAL
CHAOS BROKE OUT.
THERE WAS A SWARM OF CAMERAMEN
WHO JUST ENCIRCLED THE DEFENSE
TEAM LOOKING FOR THAT SHOT OF
THEENTU CRY.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH THE
VOICES OF AFRICAN-ARICMEAN
POETS, COMPILED IN A NEW
ANTHOLOGY OF CONTEMPORARY VERSE.
>> THE PURPOSE WAS TO IDENTIFY,
NURTURE AND PROMOTE AND PUBLISH
NEW BLACK WRITERS.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THERE WERE STERN
WORDS AT THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY
OVER I.R.S. TARGETING OF TEA
PARTY AND OTHER CONSERVATIVE
GROUPS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HE FIRST
LEARNED ABOUT IT LAST WEEK, AND
HE WARNED IT WON'T GO WELL FOR
THOSE RESPONSIBLE.
THE PRESIDENT'S REBUKE CAME AS
HE ANSWERD A QUESTION AT A JOINT
NEWS CONFERENCE WITH BRITISH
PRIME MINISTER DAVID CAMERON.
>> IF YOU'VE GOT THE I.R.S.
OPERATING IN ANYTHING LESS THAN
A NEUTRAL AND NONPARTISAN WAY,
THEN THAT IS OUTRAGEOUS.
IT IS CONTRARY TO OUR
TRADITIONS, AND PEOPLE HAVE TO
BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE AND IT'S GOT
TO BE FIXED.
>> Woodruff: THE NEWS BROKE LAST
FRIDAY THAT I.R.S. AGENTS HAD
APPLIED EXTRA SCRUTINY TO GROUPS
WITH TEA PARTY OR PATRIOT IN
THEIR NAMES WHEN THEY APPLIED
FOR TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
THE HEAD OF THAT I.R.S. DIVISION
APOLOGIZED ON FRIDAY.
LOIS LEARNER SAID IT TOOK PLACE
DURING THE 2012 CAMPAIGN.
SHE BLAMED LOW-LEVEL OFFICIALS
IN THE AGENCY'S CINCINATTI
OFFICE WHICH HANDLED THE
APPLICATIONS.
BUT ADDITIONAL REPORTS OVER THE
WEEKEND SAID LEARNER HERSELF WAS
INFORMED OF THE TARGETING AS
EARLY AS 2011.
OTHER REPORTS CLAIM THAT THE
I.R.S. ALSO ZEROED IN ON GROUPS
THAT FOCUSED ON GOVERNMENT
SPENDING OR EDUCATING AMERICANS
ABOUT THE U.S. CONSTITUTION.
THAT INFORMATION WAS BASEDDED ON
A DRAFT REPORT FROM A TREASURY
DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR GENERAL.
THE PRESIDENT SAID TODAY HE WILL
WAIT FOR THAT INVESTIGATION TO
BE COMPLETED BEFORE MAKING A
FINAL JUDGMENT.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I
THINK PEOPLE ARE PROPERLY
CONCERNED ABOUT.
THE I.G. IS CONDUCTING ITS
INVESTIGATION, AND I AM NOT
GOING TO COMMENT ON THEIR
SPECIFIC FINDINGS PREMATURELY.
SO WE'LL WAIT AND SEE WHAT
EXACTLY ALL THE DETAILS AND THE
FACTS ARE.
BUT I'VE GOT NO PATIENCE WITH
IT.
I WILL NOT TOLERATE IT.
WE'LL MAKE SURE THAT WE FIND OUT
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED ON THIS.
>> Woodruff: LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH
PARTIES ALSO DEMANDED ANSWERS.
ON SUNDAY REPUBLICAN SENATOR
SUSAN COLLINS OF MAINE TOLD CNN
THAT SHE DOUBTS THE MISCONDUCT
WAS LIMITED TO LOW-LEVEL I.R.S.
STAFFERS.
>> I JUST DON'T BUY THAT THIS
WAS A COUPLE OF ROGUE I.R.S.
EMPLOYEES.
AFTER ALL, GROUPS WITH
PROGRESSIVE IN THEIR NAMES WERE
NOT TARGETED SIMILARLY.
THERE'S EVIDENCE THAT
HIGHER-LEVEL SUPERVISORS WERE
AWARE OF THIS.
AND THE I.R.S. WAS NOT FORTH
COMING IN TELLING CONGRESS ABOUT
THE PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: FLORIDA REPUBLICAN
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO WENT
FURTHER.
IN A LETTER TO TREASURY
SECRETARY JACK LU TODAY, HE
CALLED FOR THE RESIGNATION OF
ACTING I.R.S. COMMISSIONER
STEVEN MILLER.
THE SENATE'S DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID ALSO SPOKE
OUT.
>> THE ALLEGED ACTIONS OF I.R.S.
EMPLOYEES IN THE CINCINATTI
FIELD OFFICE WOULD BE A TERRIBLE
BREACH OF THE PUBLIC'S TRUST.
WHETHER INVESTIGATING
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS OR LIBERAL
GROUPS, THEY SHOULD NOT BE
INVOLVED IN THIS.
TARGETING ANY GROUP BASED ON ITS
POLITICAL STANCE IS COMPLETELY
INAPPROPRIATE.
>> Woodruff: THE CHAIR OF THE
SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE,
MONTANA DEMOCRAT MAX BAUCUS, HAS
SAID HIS PANEL WILL LOOK INTO
THE MATTER.
AND TWO REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE
CHAIRS IN THE HOUSE ALSO HAVE
VOWED TO INVESTIGATE.
LATE TODAY THE HOUSE WAYS AND
MEANS COMMITTEE ANNOUNCED IT
WILL HOLD A HEARING THIS FRIDAY.
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND THE TAX
LAW, AND WHAT THE GROUPS ARE
CHARGING, WE ARE JOINED BY DUKE
UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL PROFESSOR
RICHARD SCHMALBECK.
HE'S A FORMER TAX ATTORNEY.
AND FORMER I.R.S. ATTORNEY JAY
SEKULOW.
AS CHIEF COUNSEL AT THE AMERICAN
CENTER FOR THE LAW AND JUSTICE,
HE IS REPRESENTING TEA PARTY
ORGANIZATIONS.
HE ALSO HOSTS A CONSERVATIVE
TALK RADIO PROGRAM.
GENTLEMEN, WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
JAY SEKULOW, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
LET'S GO BACK TO THE APPLICATION
THAT THESE GROUPS MADE FOR
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
WHAT SORT OF TAX TREATMENT
EXACTLY WERE THEY ASKING FOR?
>> MOST OF THEM WERE ASKING FOR,
OUR CLIENTS WERE ASKING FOR C-4
STATUS WHICH ALLOWS FOR THE
MONEY GIVEN IS NOT TAXABLE.
IT'S NOT TAX DEDUCTIBLE BY THE
DONOR BUT IT'S NOT A TAX EVENT
TO THE ORGANIZATION.
SO IT WAS A 501C-4 LEGAL STATUS.
THE APPLICATION ACTUALLY IS VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THE FIRST SERIES OF QUESTIONS
WERE NOT TERRIBLY IMREUS I HAVE.
IT WAS THE SECOND ROUND OF
QUESTIONS THAT WERE VERY IMREUS
I HAVE AND HAS CAUSED THE
PROBLEM HERE.
>> WHY IF THEY WERE SEEKING THIS
STATUS, WHICH IS TAX EXEMPT AS
WE JUST HEARD HIM SAY, WHY THEN
ARE THEY ELIGIBLE FOR TAX
EXEMPTION?
>> WELL, THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE ELIGIBLE.
I THINK IN MANY CASES, THE
PRIMARY EXPLANATION IS THAT THEY
ARE SIMPLY NOT ACTIVITIES THAT
ARE ENGAGED IN FOR PROFIT.
THE NORMAL COURSE OF THINGS
WOULDN'T BE THAT THEY WOULD
GENERATE PROFIT.
THEY SPEND THEIR FUNDS ON
ACTIVITIES THAT ADVANCE SOME
PURPOSE.
IN THE CASE OF C-4
ORGANIZATIONS, THEY'RE
CONSIDERED SOCIAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATIONS.
THEY ARE PRESUMED TO ADVANCE
SOCIAL WELFARE.
SO IT INCLUDES THINGS LIKE
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
IT INCLUDES ORGANIZATIONS, I
BELIEVE, THE A.C.L.U. IS A 501
C-4.
I THINK THE NATIONAL RIFLE
ASSOCIATION IS A 501 C-4.
>> Woodruff: JAY SEKULOW, I JUST
WANT TO PURSUE THIS VERY QUICKLY
BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE ARE CONFUSED
ABOUT THE TERM TAX EXEMPT.
THEY'RE SEEKING THIS STATUS EVEN
THOUGH THEY PURSUE A VERY STRONG
SET OF BELIEFS, AS WE JUST
HEARD, WHETHER IT'S THE NATIONAL
RIFLE ASSOCIATION OR ANOTHER
GROUP, FOR EXAMPLE, TODAY I GOT
AN EMAIL FROM A GROUP THAT IS A
501 C-4 BUT THEY STRATEGICALLY
PARTNERED WITH A REPUBLICAN
GROUP.
BUT THAT'S OKAY, RIGHT?
>> WELL, YOU CAN'T BE PART OF
THE NATIONAL REPUBLICAN PARTY OR
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY, PER SAY,
AND THAT'S NOT ALLOWED.
BUT IT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU SAID.
THE A.C.L.U. IS A 501 C-4.
THEY ADVANCE A PARTICULAR
AGENDA.
THAT AGENDA IS DEEMED TO BE
BENEFICIAL TO THE SOCIAL
WELFARE.
THAT INCLUDES THEIR EDUCATIONAL
ACTIVITIES AND THEIR LITIGATION
ACTIVITIES.
MY CLIENTS WERE ENGAGED IN
MOSTLY EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
THEY HAD CIVIC QUORUMS.
THEY HAD DISCUSSIONS ON ISSUES.
THEY WERE NOT INVOLVED WITH A
PARTICULAR POLITICAL PARTY.
THAT'S WHERE THE LINE GETS
DIFFERENT, THE STANDARDS ARE
DIFFERENT.
IT'S A FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCE
TEST.
JUDY, AT THE OUTSET I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THE 501
C-4s HAVE BEEN AROUND FOR A
LONG TIME.
THE A.C.L.U. HAS BEEN ONE FOR
DECADES.
I BELIEVE THEY'RE COMPLETELY
ENTITLED TO IT.
THE FACT IS WHAT HAS HAPPENED,
AS THE I.R.S. ADMITTED, THEY
ENGAGED IN TARGETED
DISCRIMINATION IN PICKING OUT
THE GROUP S WITH THE NAME TEA
PARTY OR PATRIOT AND BROADENING
IT OUT TO GROUPS THAT WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CONSTITUTION.
THE I.R.S. HAS ADMITTED THAT BUT
THAT DOESN'T PREVENT WHAT'S
HAPPENED HERE PROFESSOR, WHAT
NORMALLY WOULD HAPPEN IF A GROUP
APPLYING FOR THIS STATUS, WHAT
IS THE I.R.S. SUPPOSED TO DO?
WHAT KINDS OF QUESTIONS ARE THEY
SUPPOSED TO ASK.
>> IN THIS CASE THERE IS ANOTHER
TYPE OF ORGANIZATION ALSO TAMENT
EXEMPT CALLED POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
THEY'RE EXEMPT UNDER SECTION 527
OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
AND THE IRGS POSITION ON THIS
HAS LONG BEEN THAT IF YOU WANT
TO BE A C-4 SOCIAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATION, YOU CANNOT ENGAGE
PRIMARILY IN POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
AND THAT'S DEFINED PRIMARILY AS
ESSENTIALLY MORE THAN 50% OF
YOUR ACTIVITY.
SO I THINK THE CONCERN ON THE
PART OF THE I.R.S. -- AND I
THINK THIS IS A LEGITIMATE
CONCERN THAT THEY HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO ACT ON -- IS THAT
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE PROBABLY
MORE ACCURATELY CONSIDERED 527
POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS PREFER
TO BE SOCIAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATIONS UNDER 501 C-4.
AND THE PRIMARY REASON FOR THAT
IS THAT 527 ORGANIZATIONS HAVE
TO DISCLOSE PUBLICLY THE NAMES
OF THEIR DONORS.
AND NO SUCH OBLIGATION EXISTS
FOR 501 C-4 ORGANIZATIONS.
AND SO...
>> Woodruff: JAY SEKULOW, DOES
THAT SOUND LIKE THE PRINCIPAL
DISTINCTION THERE?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY THE LAW.
BUT THE DIFFERENCE HERE IS THAT
THE QUESTIONS THAT WERE ASKED BY
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE IN
THEIR SUBSEQUENT FOLLOW-UPS
WHICH IS WHERE THE QUESTIONS AND
THE PROBLEMS STARTED AS THE
I.R.S. ACKNOWLEDGED WERE OUTSIDE
THE SCOPE OF A 501 C-4
QUESTIONS.
THEY WEREN'T RELEVANT TO 527
THESE WERE NOT APPROPRIATE UNDER
QUESTIONS.
ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.
THESE WERE NOT APPROPRIATE UNDER
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS AN EXAMPLE?
ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.
HOW ABOUT CONVERSATIONS YOU
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS AN EXAMPLE?
HAD WITH MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY
HOW ABOUT CONVERSATIONS YOU
AND WHAT THEY MAY HAVE SAID TO
HAD WITH MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
AND WHAT THEY MAY HAVE SAID TO
OR YOUR MEMBERSHIP LISTS.
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
IF YOU'RE APPLYING FOR C-4
OR YOUR MEMBERSHIP LISTS.
STATUS, THOSE MEMBERSHIP LISTS
IF YOU'RE APPLYING FOR C-4
ARE OFF LIMITS.
STATUS, THOSE MEMBERSHIP LISTS
AND THE PROFESSOR IS RIGHT.
ARE OFF LIMITS.
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
AND THE PROFESSOR IS RIGHT.
527 AND A 501 C-4.
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
THE C-4 ORGANIZATIONS CAN ENGAGE
527 AND A 501 C-4.
IN ACTIVITY THAT IS DEEMED
THE C-4 ORGANIZATIONS CAN ENGAGE
POLITICAL AS LONG AS THAT'S NOT
IN ACTIVITY THAT IS DEEMED
THEIR PRIMARY PURPOSE.
POLITICAL AS LONG AS THAT'S NOT
THAT WASN'T THE QUESTIONS THOUGH
THEIR PRIMARY PURPOSE.
THAT WERE ASKED, JUDY.
THAT WASN'T THE QUESTIONS THOUGH
THAT'S THE PROBLEM HERE.
THAT WERE ASKED, JUDY.
IT'S THE I.R.S. INTRUSIVE NATURE
THAT'S THE PROBLEM HERE.
OF THEIR QUESTION WHICH WAS
IT'S THE I.R.S. INTRUSIVE NATURE
CREATED THE PROBLEM.
OF THEIR QUESTION WHICH WAS
BESIDES THE FACT THAT OUR
CREATED THE PROBLEM.
ORGANIZATION OBJECTED TO THOSE
BESIDES THE FACT THAT OUR
QUESTIONS WHEN THEY WERE RAISED,
ORGANIZATION OBJECTED TO THOSE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
QUESTIONS WHEN THEY WERE RAISED,
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THAT WAS A
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
PROBLEM.
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THAT WAS A
THAT REPORT IS ABOUT TO BE MADE
PROBLEM.
PUBLIC.
THAT REPORT IS ABOUT TO BE MADE
THAT'S THE ONLY REASON THAT THIS
PUBLIC.
IS OUT TODAY IS THE I.R.S. TRIED
THAT'S THE ONLY REASON THAT THIS
TO GET AHEAD OF IT.
IS OUT TODAY IS THE I.R.S. TRIED
THEY ASKED THE WRONG QUESTIONS
TO GET AHEAD OF IT.
TO THE WRONG ORGANIZATIONS.
THEY ASKED THE WRONG QUESTIONS
THEY WEREN'T LOOKING AT THE 527
TO THE WRONG ORGANIZATIONS.
APPLICATIONS.
THEY WEREN'T LOOKING AT THE 527
THESE WERE C-4s.
APPLICATIONS.
THE I.R.S. COULD HAVE SAID WELL
THESE WERE C-4s.
THEY DIDN'T QUALIFY.
THE I.R.S. COULD HAVE SAID WELL
THAT WAS NOT WHAT THEY ASKED.
THEY DIDN'T QUALIFY.
THESE WERE INTRUSIVE QUESTIONS.
THAT WAS NOT WHAT THEY ASKED.
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR
THESE WERE INTRUSIVE QUESTIONS.
SCHMALBECK, WHAT IS THE LIMIT IF
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR
THE I.R.S. WOULD BE ASKING IF
SCHMALBECK, WHAT IS THE LIMIT IF
THEY'RE DETERMINING LEGITIMATE
THE I.R.S. WOULD BE ASKING IF
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS?
THEY'RE DETERMINING LEGITIMATE
>> ONE OF THE PROBLEMS HERE IS
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS?
THAT THESE QUESTIONS DO SEEM TO
>> ONE OF THE PROBLEMS HERE IS
ME AT LEAST IN SOME CASES
THAT THESE QUESTIONS DO SEEM TO
RELEVANT TO THE QUESTION OF
ME AT LEAST IN SOME CASES
WHETHER THEY ARE MORE ACCURATELY
RELEVANT TO THE QUESTION OF
CONSIDERED POLITICAL
WHETHER THEY ARE MORE ACCURATELY
ORGANIZATIONS OR SOCIAL WELFARE
CONSIDERED POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
ORGANIZATIONS OR SOCIAL WELFARE
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU KNEW
ORGANIZATIONS.
THAT THE PRIMARY...
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU KNEW
>> YOURRE
THAT THE PRIMARY...
THE DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL
>> YOURRE
COMMITTEE, THAT WOULD INCLINE
THE DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL
YOU TO THINK THAT IT WAS MORE OF
COMMITTEE, THAT WOULD INCLINE
A POLITICAL ORGANIZATION RATHER
YOU TO THINK THAT IT WAS MORE OF
THAN A SOCIAL WELFARE
A POLITICAL ORGANIZATION RATHER
ORGANIZATION.
THAN A SOCIAL WELFARE
SO THINGS LIKE NAMES OF DONORS
ORGANIZATION.
ARE NOT IRRELEVANT.
SO THINGS LIKE NAMES OF DONORS
I AM SYMPATHETIC TO THE TEA
ARE NOT IRRELEVANT.
PARTY IN THIS RESPECT THOUGH.
I AM SYMPATHETIC TO THE TEA
IT IS TRUE THAT IF YOU ARE
PARTY IN THIS RESPECT THOUGH.
AWARDED C-4 STATUS, YOUR
IT IS TRUE THAT IF YOU ARE
APPLICATION MUST BE MADE PUBLIC.
AWARDED C-4 STATUS, YOUR
AND APPLICATION IS IS DEFINED IN
APPLICATION MUST BE MADE PUBLIC.
SUCH A WAY THAT IT INCLUDES ALL
AND APPLICATION IS IS DEFINED IN
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE INTERNAL
SUCH A WAY THAT IT INCLUDES ALL
REVENUE SERVICE.
COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE INTERNAL
SO THERE IS A BIT OF A CATCH-22
REVENUE SERVICE.
HERE.
SO THERE IS A BIT OF A CATCH-22
THE I.R.S. SAYS BASICALLY THAT
HERE.
YOU ARE ENTITLED TO PRIVACY AS
THE I.R.S. SAYS BASICALLY THAT
TO YOUR DONORS IF YOU QUALIFY
YOU ARE ENTITLED TO PRIVACY AS
FOR C-4 STATUS, BUT WE'RE NOT
TO YOUR DONORS IF YOU QUALIFY
GOING TO APPROVE YOUR C-4
FOR C-4 STATUS, BUT WE'RE NOT
APPLICATION UNTIL YOU DISCLOSE
GOING TO APPROVE YOUR C-4
YOUR DONORS.
APPLICATION UNTIL YOU DISCLOSE
ONCE YOU DISCLOSE THEM TO US,
YOUR DONORS.
THEY'LL BE DISCLOSED TO THE
ONCE YOU DISCLOSE THEM TO US,
PUBLIC.
THEY'LL BE DISCLOSED TO THE
THERE IS A PROBLEM.
PUBLIC.
THAT'S LARGELY A PROBLEM OF
THERE IS A PROBLEM.
CONGRESS' MAKING.
THAT'S LARGELY A PROBLEM OF
THERE IS A STATUTE, SECTION 6104
CONGRESS' MAKING.
OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE,
THERE IS A STATUTE, SECTION 6104
THAT REQUIRES THAT PUBLIC
OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE,
DISCLOSURE OF THE APPLICATION
THAT REQUIRES THAT PUBLIC
MATERIALS.
DISCLOSURE OF THE APPLICATION
THAT COULD BE AMENDED TO PERMIT
MATERIALS.
REDABBING SHUN OF SOME OF THE
THAT COULD BE AMENDED TO PERMIT
INFORMATION THAT I THINK THEY
REDABBING SHUN OF SOME OF THE
REGARD AS MOST SENSITIVE.
INFORMATION THAT I THINK THEY
>> Woodruff: IN LESS THAN A
REGARD AS MOST SENSITIVE.
MINUTE, JAY SEKULOW, SO WHAT
>> Woodruff: IN LESS THAN A
QUESTIONS REMAIN TO BE ANSWERED
MINUTE, JAY SEKULOW, SO WHAT
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS?
QUESTIONS REMAIN TO BE ANSWERED
>> NUMBER ONE, WE NEED TO KNOW
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS?
WHO AUTHORIZED THIS BECAUSE THIS
>> NUMBER ONE, WE NEED TO KNOW
IDEA THAT THESE WERE LOW-LEVEL
WHO AUTHORIZED THIS BECAUSE THIS
AGENTS OR TAX-EXEMPT SPECIALIST
IDEA THAT THESE WERE LOW-LEVEL
I WAS IN CHIEF COUNSEL'S OFFICE
AGENTS OR TAX-EXEMPT SPECIALIST
OF THE I.R.S. THAT WE WERE THEIR
I WAS IN CHIEF COUNSEL'S OFFICE
LAWYERS SO THESE WERE NOT
OF THE I.R.S. THAT WE WERE THEIR
LOW-LEVEL PEOPLE.
LAWYERS SO THESE WERE NOT
THESE WERE WELL TRAINED REVENUE
LOW-LEVEL PEOPLE.
AGENTS SPECIALIZING IN TAX
THESE WERE WELL TRAINED REVENUE
EXEMPT.
AGENTS SPECIALIZING IN TAX
WE NEED TO DECIDE WHO DETERMINED
EXEMPT.
TO COORDINATE THESE AUDITS, WHY
WE NEED TO DECIDE WHO DETERMINED
THEY PICKED NAMES TO GO AFTER,
TO COORDINATE THESE AUDITS, WHY
AND FIND OUT WHO IS RESPONSIBLE.
THEY PICKED NAMES TO GO AFTER,
AT THE END OF THE DAY THE
AND FIND OUT WHO IS RESPONSIBLE.
PRESIDENT SAID TODAY, IF THIS IN
AT THE END OF THE DAY THE
FACT HAPPENED, WELL, HIS OWN
PRESIDENT SAID TODAY, IF THIS IN
STAFF, HIS OWN TEAM HAS
FACT HAPPENED, WELL, HIS OWN
ACKNOWLEDGED THIS HAS HAPPENED.
STAFF, HIS OWN TEAM HAS
AS I SAID THE WHITE HOUSE
ACKNOWLEDGED THIS HAS HAPPENED.
COUNSEL WAS NOTIFIED OF THIS IN
AS I SAID THE WHITE HOUSE
LATE APRIL.
COUNSEL WAS NOTIFIED OF THIS IN
>> Woodruff: AND VERY QUICKLY,
LATE APRIL.
PROFESSOR SCHMALBECK, WHAT WOULD
>> Woodruff: AND VERY QUICKLY,
YOU ADD?
PROFESSOR SCHMALBECK, WHAT WOULD
WHAT QUESTIONS NEED TO BE
YOU ADD?
ANSWERED TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
WHAT QUESTIONS NEED TO BE
THIS?
ANSWERED TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
>> I DON'T DISAGREE WITH THE
THIS?
LIST THAT JAY JUST OFFERED VERY
>> I DON'T DISAGREE WITH THE
MUCH.
LIST THAT JAY JUST OFFERED VERY
I GUESS THE ONE THING THAT I
MUCH.
WOULD SAY IN CONCLUSION IS THAT
I GUESS THE ONE THING THAT I
WHEN PEOPLE HEAR THAT
WOULD SAY IN CONCLUSION IS THAT
ORGANIZATIONS WITH THE NAME "TEA
WHEN PEOPLE HEAR THAT
PARTY" IN THEM HAVE BEEN
ORGANIZATIONS WITH THE NAME "TEA
TARGETED IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE AN
PARTY" IN THEM HAVE BEEN
EXPLANATION FOR THAT THAT ISN'T
TARGETED IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE AN
ROOTED IN POLITICAL BIAS.
EXPLANATION FOR THAT THAT ISN'T
BUT THERE IS AN EXPLANATION,
ROOTED IN POLITICAL BIAS.
POSSIBLY, THAT IS ROOTED IN A
BUT THERE IS AN EXPLANATION,
LEGITIMATE EFFORT TO TRY TO
POSSIBLY, THAT IS ROOTED IN A
DISTINGUISH POLITICAL
LEGITIMATE EFFORT TO TRY TO
ORGANIZATIONS FROM SOCIAL
DISTINGUISH POLITICAL
WELFARE ORGANIZATIONS.
ORGANIZATIONS FROM SOCIAL
I THINK IF YOU ASKED 100 PEOPLE
WELFARE ORGANIZATIONS.
ON THE STREET WHAT THE TEA PARTY
I THINK IF YOU ASKED 100 PEOPLE
IS ABOUT, I THINK MOST OF THEM
ON THE STREET WHAT THE TEA PARTY
WOULD SAY THAT IT'S A POLITICAL
IS ABOUT, I THINK MOST OF THEM
ORGANIZATION.
WOULD SAY THAT IT'S A POLITICAL
SO THIS IS AT SOME LEVELOUGH
ORGANIZATION.
THE I.R.S. MAY HAVE BUNGLED IT.
SO THIS IS AT SOME LEVELOUGH
>> Woodruff: GENTLEMEN, WE HEAR
THE I.R.S. MAY HAVE BUNGLED IT.
YOU BOTH.
>> Woodruff: GENTLEMEN, WE HEAR
THIS STORY CONTINUES.
YOU BOTH.
PROFESSOR SCHMALBE, JCKAY
THIS STORY CONTINUES.
SEKULOW, WE THANK YOU BOTH.
PROFESSOR SCHMALBE, JCKAY
>> MY PLEASURE.
SEKULOW, WE THANK YOU BOTH.
JUDY, THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, GUILTY VERDICTS FOR
DR. KERMIT GOSNELL; THE SUPREME
COURT DECISION ON A PATENT FOR
SOYBEAN SEEDS; THE ELECTION
RESULTS IN PAKISTAN; THE
GENOCIDE CONVICTION OF A
GUATEMALAN DICTATOR; AND A NEW
ANTHOLOGY OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN
POETRY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TODAY REJECTED REPUBLICAN CLAIMS
THAT HIS ADMINIRATISTON COVERED
UP DETAILS ABOUT LAST FALL'S
ATTACK IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA.
FOUR AMERICANS-- INCLUDING U.S.
AMBASSADOR CHRIS STEVENS-- DIED
IN THE ASSAULT ON THE DIPLOMATIC
MISSION THERE.
MUCH OF THE FOCUS HAS BEEN ON
TALKING POINTS COMPOSED JUST
AFTER THE ATTACK.
IT TURNS OUT THAT SENIOR
OFFICIALS PUSHED TO DELETE
REFERENCES TO AL-QAEDA AND PRIOR
WARNINGS.
BUT TODAY, THE PRESIDENT
INSISTED THERE WAS NO INTENT TO
DECEIVE.
THE WHOLE ISSUE OF TALKING
POINTS FRANKLY THROUGHOUT THIS
PROCESS HAS BEEN A SIDE SHOW.
WHO EXECUTES SOME SORT OF
COVER-UP OR EFFORT TO TAMP
THINGS DOWN FOR THREE DAYS?
SO THE WHOLE THING DEFIES LOGIC.
THE FACT THAT THIS KEEPS ON
GETTING CHURNED OUT FRANKLY HAS
A LOT TO DO WITH POLITICAL
MOTIVATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: REPUBLICANS ARE
SEEKING MORE DETAILS FROM
VETERAN DIPLOMAT THOMAS
PICKERING AND RETIRED NAVY
ADMIRAL MIKE MULLEN, AUTHORS OF
AN INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF THE
BENGHAZI INCIDENT.
TODAY CALIFORNIA CONGRESSMAN
DARRELL ISSA REQUESTED THEY
DISCUSS THEIR FINDINGS WITH
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATORS IN
PRIVATE.
DEMOCRAT ELIJAH CUMMINGS OF
MARYLAND CALLED FOR PUBLIC
TESTIMONY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT
ALSO SAID TODAY THE U.S. IS
WORKING WITH BRITAIN TO KEEP
PRESSURE ON SYRIAN PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD TO FORCE AN END
TO HIS REGIME.
IN TURN, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER
CAMERON SAID THERE IS "NO MORE
URGENT INTERNATIONAL TASK" THAN
ENDING THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR.
MEANWHILE, IN SYRIA, ASSAD'S
TROOPS MADE NEW GAINS IN A
COUNTEROFFENSIVE THAT BEGAN IN
RECENT WEEKS.
A SYRIAN HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAID
GOVERNMENT FORCES TOOK FULL
CONTROL OF A STRATEGIC TOWN NEAR
THE HIGHWAY THAT LINKS DAMASCUS
WITH JORDAN.
REBELS WITHDREW FROM THE AREA
AFTER DAYS OF FIGHTING.
THE SUSPECT IN LAST SUMMER'S
MOVIE THEATER SHOOTINGS IN
COLORADO FORMALLY ASKED TODAY TO
CHANGE HIS PLEA TO "NOT GUILTY
BY REASON OF INSANITY."
JAMES HOLMES APPEARED AT A COURT
HEARING IN CENTENNIAL.
HE'S ACCUSED OF KILLING A DOZEN
PEOPLE AND WOUNDING 70 MORE LAST
JULY AT A THEATER IN THE TOWN OF
AURORA.
THE JUDGE NOW MUST DECIDE
WHETHER TO ACCEPT THE NEW PLEA
BEFORE THE NEXT HEARING IN THE
CASE, SET FOR MAY 31.
MINNESOTA'S STATE LEGISLATURE
MOVED THIS EVENING TO LEGALIZE
GAY MARRIAGE, MAKING IT THE
THIRD STATE THIS MONTH TO DO SO.
THE GOVERNOR INDICATED HE'D SIGN
THE BILL AFTER IT CLEARS THE
STATE SENATE.
ALL TOL MIND,NESOTA JOINS 11
STATES AND THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA IN ALLOWING SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE.
RHODE ISLAND AND DELAWARE JOINED
THE LIST EARLIER IN MAY.
WALL STREET BEGAN THE WEEK ON A
LACKLUSTER NOTE.
DOWN 26.81 AT 15,091.68 THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
MORE THAN 26 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,091.
THE NASDAQ ROSE TWO POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3438.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: THE PHILADELPHIA
DOCTOR WHO PERFORMED LATE-TERM
ABORTIONS WAS FOUND GUILTY ON
MURDER CHARGES TODAY.
HIS CASE AND THE SIX-WEEK TRIAL
PROMPTED STRONG REACTION ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE ABORTION DEBATE.
RAY SUAREZ HAS MORE ON THE
VERDICT.
>> Suarez: AFTER TEN DAYS OF
DELIBERATIONS, THE JURY
CONVICTED DR. KERMIT GOSNELL ON
THREE COUNTS OF FIRST-DEGREE
MURDER.
PROSECUTORS SAID GOSNELL
DELIVERED FETUSES THAT WERE
ALIVE, AND THEN SNIPPED THEIR
SPINES WITH SCISSORS AT HIS WES
PHILADELPHIA OFFICE.
ONE FETUS WAS SAID TO BE NEARLY
30 WEEKS ALONG.
GOSNELL ALSO WAS FOUND GUILTY OF
INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER IN THE
OVERDOSE DEATH OF A PATIENT.
THE JURY ACQUITTED HIM OF A
FOUH CORTUNT OF MURDER.
AND THE JUDGE THREW OUT THREE
OTHER MURDER CHARGES AFTER THE
PROSECUTION RESTED ITS CASE.
GOSNELL COULD FACE THE DEATH
PENALTY.
MARYCLAIRE DALE OF THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS COVERED THE
TRIAL.
SHE JOINS US NOW.
WAS THE JURY OUT FOR A LONG
TIME, MARYAREA?
>> THE JURY WAS OUT FOR TEN
DAYS.
GIVEN THE NATURE OF THE CHARGES
AND THE NUMBER OF CHARGES ALONE
WAS NOT REALLY THAT LONG.
SOME PEOPLE THOUGHT IT WAS.
BUT WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT,
THERE WERE FIVE MURDER CHARGES
SENT TO THE JURY.
IT WASN'T LIKE THERE WAS ONE
GUNMAN WITH FIVE WHO KILLED FIVE
PEOPLE RIGHT AWAY.
THEY WERE FIVE DISTINCT SETS OF
FACTS IN EACH OF THE DEATHS.
THEN THERE WERE MORE THAN 200
ABORTION LAW VIOLATIONS AS WELL
AS RACKETEERING AND OTHER
CHARGES.
SO THE JURY WORKD LONG AND HARD.
BUT THEIR VERDICT TODAY SHOWS
THAT THEY LOOKED AT EACH COUNT
SPECIFICALLY.
THEY THROUGH OUT A FEW OF THE
ABORTION LAW VIOLATIONS AND
REALLY WORKED HARD AND DID THROW
OUT ONE OF THE MURDER CHARGES AS
WELL AS COMING BACK WITH
INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER IN THE
OVERDOSE DEATH.
SO THEY CLEARLY LOOKED AT THE
FACTS OF EACH CASE SEPARATELY
AND DID NOT JUST COME UP WITH A
GENERALIZED ONE-WAY UP OR DOWN
ON THE VERDICT.
>> Suarez: AFTER THE JUDGE THREW
OUT THE CHARGES IN DEATHS OF
OTHER BABIES, HE WAS FINALLY
CHARGED WITH CAUSING THE DEATHS
OF PEOPLE CALLED FOR THE
PURPOSES OF THIS TRIAL "BABIES
A, C, D AND E."
WERE THE CIRCUMSTANCES SIMILAR
IN ALL THOSE CASES?
>> NOT EXACTLY.
ALL FOUR BABIES WERE ALLEGEDLY
SNIPPED WITH SCISSORS AFTER THEY
WERE BORN ALIVE.
BUT THE JURY CAME BACK AND SAID
BUT THE EVIDENCE IN EACH CASE
WAS DIFFERENT.
GOSNELL WAS SAID TO HAVE ONLY
PERFORMED TWO OF THOSE DEATHS
AND OTHER STAFF MEMBERS HAVE
ALREADY PLEADED GUILTY AND
ADMITTED THEY KILLED TWO OF THE
OTHER BABIES.
THE JURY AGAIN ACQUITTED GOSNELL
OF ONE OF THE COUNTS.
IT WAS A BABY THAT A STAFF
MEMBER SAID THEY HEARD WHINE
FROM A ROOM BUT DID NOT... THEN
THEY SAW GOSNELL GO INTO THE
ROOM.
NOBODY TESTIFIED TO BEING AN
EYEWITNESS TO SEEING THE DOCTOR
ALLEGEDLY CUT THAT BABY.
AGAIN THE JURY DID ACQUIT ON
THAT CASE WHILE COMING BACK WITH
VERDICTS OF FIRST DEGREE GUILT
IN THE OTHER THREE DEATHS WHERE
AGAIN EITHER STAFFERS THAT WERE
INSTRUCTED BY GOSNELL OR GOSNELL
WERE SEEN TO HAVE CUT THE
BABIES.
>> Suarez: WOMEN WHO SOUGHT
THESE LATE-TERM ABORTIONS
SUBMITTED THEMSELVES TO
DR. GOSNELL FOR THIS CARE.
WERE THEY IN ANY LEGAL JEOPARDY
THEMSELVES IN VIOLATION OF
PENNSYLVANIA'S LAW?
AND DID THEY TESTIFY AGAINST
DR. GOSNELL?
>> TWO DID TESTIFY.
ONE OF WHOM WAS THEN A
15-YEAR-OLD... I'M SORRY, A
17-YEAR-OLD GIRL.
NO, THEY WERE NOT IN ANY LEGAL
JEOPARDY.
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY WERE GIVEN
IMMUNITY BUT I BELIEVE POSSIBLY
THE STATUTE WOULD HAVE RUN
ANYWAY.
SO WE ONLY HEARD FROM TWO
ABORTION PATIENTS.
AGAIN ONE WAS A 17-YEAR-OLD WHO
ENDED UP GETTING AN INFECTION.
SHE WAS THE ONE WHO HER BABY WAS
ESTIMATES TO BE PERHAPS 30 WEEKS
OLD.
STAFFERS WERE SO SURPRISED THAT
THEY TOOK CELL PHONE PICTURES
AFTERWARD.
ONCE THE F.B.I. RECOVERED THE
PICTURES THAT BECAME SOME OF THE
PRIME EVIDENCE AND MOST
DISTURBING EVIDENCE IN THE CASE.
THAT WOMAN TESTIFIED THAT SHE
ENDED UP WITH SEPSIS AND WAS
HOSPITALIZED FOR TO WEEKS.
GOSNELL DID NOT PROVIDE VERY
GOOD CARE OF THE WOMEN
THEMSELVES.
>> Suarez: DR. GOSNELL DID NOT
TAKE THE STAND IN HIS OWN
DEFENSE BUT HE HAS SPOKEN OF
OVER TIME HIS MOTIVATIONS AND
HIS ACTIONS AT THE CLINIC.
HOW DID HE EXPLAIN WHAT HE DID?
>> HE SEES HIMSELF AS SOMETHING
OF A MEDICAL PIONEER AND AN
ADVOCATE FOR INNER-CITY WOMEN
WHO LACK MEDICAL CARE OR CAN'T
ACCESS IT.
HE HAS BEEN PROVIDING MEDICAL
SERVICES AND ABORTIONS IN THE
INNER CITY FOR 30 OR 40 YEARS
UNTIL HIS CLINIC WAS SHUT DOWN
IN 2010.
AGAIN HE SEES THESE WOMEN AS
DESPERATE AND BELIEVES THAT HE
IS PERHAPS HELPING THEM GET ON
WITH THEIR LIVES AND THAT
THEY'RE IN DIFFICULT SITUATIONS.
HE SAYS THAT HE THOUGHT... HE
HAS SAID THAT HE THOUGHT SOME OF
THEM WERE THE VICTIMS OF ABUSE
OR NEGLECT AND THAT HE THEREFORE
KEPT D.N.A. SAMPLES OF THE
FETUSES IN CASE THERE WERE COURT
CASES OVER THE PREGNANCIES.
DISTURBINGLY HOW HE KEPT THAT
D.N.A. EVIDENCE WAS BY SEVERING
THE FEET OF SOME OF THE FETUSES.
THAT WAS QUITE A DISTURBING
FEATURE OF THE TRIAL.
BUT WE EXPECT THAT WE WELL MIGHT
HEAR FROM HIM AS HE PREPARES
NEXT WEEK TO FIGHT TO AVOID THE
DEATH PENALTY IN THE CASE.
>> Suarez: BOTH SUPPORTERS AND
OPPONENTS OF CONTINUED LEGAL
ABORTION IN THE UNITED STATES
HAD REACTIONS.
QUICKLY, WHAT ARE THEY SAYING IN
THE HOURS SINCE THE VERDICT?
>> WELL, IT MIGHT BE ONE OF THE
FEW POINTS ON WHICH BOTH SIDES
AGREE.
MOST OF THE GROUPS I'VE HEARD
FROM ARE, OF COURSE, ENDORSING
THE VERDICT.
PEOPLE WHO ARE BELIEVERS IN
LEGALIZED ABORTION SAY THAT THE
CASE REALLY DEMONSTRATES THE
NEED FOR MORE ACCESS TO LEGAL,
SAFE ABORTIONS JUST THE KIND
THAT GOSNELL WAS NOT PROVIDING
WHILE PEOPLE WHO ARE OPPOSED TO
LEGAL ABORTIONS SAY THAT THE
CASE AND THE VERY GRAPHIC NATURE
OF THE EVIDENCE SHOW THAT THESE
BABIES SUFFER WHETHER THE
ABORTIONS ARE DONE IN OUT ROW OR
WHETHER THEY ARE KILLED AFTER
THE FACT, AFTER THEY'RE BORN.
THEY BELIEVE THAT THE CASE
CLEARLY SHOWS THAT THEAS PEOPLE
ARE ALIVE, YOU KNOW, FEEL PAIN
AND ARE MOST OFTEN VIABLE AT
LEAST AFTER 25 WEEKS OR SO.
>> Suarez: MARYCLAIRE DALE OF
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: NOW, TO A LEGAL CASE
WATCHED FOR ITS IMPACT ON
AGRICULTURE AND NEW
TECHNOLOGIES, AS THE SUPREME
COURT TODAY UNANIMOUSLY FOUND A
SOYBEAN FARMER HAD VIOLATED A
PATENT HELD BY AGRI-GIANT
MONSANTO.
THE DECISION CAME AFTER AN
INDIANA FARMER HAD HIS DAY
BEFORE THE HIGH COURT.
HE RAN AFOUL OF MONSANTO'S
POLICY BARRING FARMERS FROM
SAVING OR REUSING ITS EXPENSIVE
ROUND-UP READY SOYBEAN SEEDS
FROM ONE YEAR TO THE NEXT.
SEEN HERE IN PROMOTIONAL VIDEOS,
GENETICALLY MODIFIED PLANTS ARE
DESIGNED TO SURVIVE BEING
SPRAYED WITH MONSANTO'S
HERBICIDE ROUND-UP.
THE SEEDS ARE PATENT-PROTECTED
AND THE COMPANY REQUIRES THAT
FARMERS BUY A NEW BATCH WITH
EACH SEASON.
INSTEAD OVER EIGHT YEARS, BOWMAN
USED GRAIN FROM AN ELEVATOR THAT
WAS SOLD FOR ANIMAL FEED AND NOT
AS SEED.
HE CLAIMED THAT WAS NOT A
VIOLATION.
>> I JUST LOOKED AT IT THAT WHEN
THEY DUMPED IT IN THERE THAT
THEY HAD ABANDONED THEIR PATENT.
>> Brown: TODAY THE COURT
REJECTED THAT ARGUMENT WITH A
UNANIMOUS DECISION IN FAVOR OF
MONSANTO.
THE CASE HAD BEEN WATCHED FOR
IMPLICATIONS IN A HOST OF OTHER
SO-CALLED SELF-REPLICATING
TECHNOLOGIES.
SUCH AS MEDICAL RESEARCH AND
COMPUTER SOFTWARE.
IN A STATEMENT MONSANTO'S LEAD
LAWYER SAID THE OUTCOME PROVIDES
ASSURANCE TO ALL INVENTORS
THROUGHOUT THE PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE SECTORS THAT THEY CAN
AND SHOULD CONTINUE TO INVEST IN
INNOVATION THAT FEEDS PEOPLE,
IMPROVES LIVES, CREATES JOBS AND
ALLOWS AMERICA TO KEEP ITS
COMPETITIVE EDGE.
IN FACT THOUGH THE JUSTICES
APPEAR TO LIMIT THEIR DECISION.
JUSTICE ELENA KAGAN, SPEAKING
FOR THE COURT, SAID IT ADDRESSES
THIS CASE ONLY.
FOR MORE ON THE CASE AND THE
DECISION WE'RE JOINED AS ALWAYS
BY MARCIA
AND FOR MORE ON THE CASE AND THE
DECISION, WE'RE JOINED AS ALWAYS
BY MARCIA COYLE OF THE "NATIONAL
LAW JOURNAL."
MARCIA IS IN CHICAGO TONIGHT.
9-0, THE COURT WAS QUITE
DEFINITIVE.
WHAT WAS THE WINNING ARGUMENT?
>> WELL, JEFF, THE WINNING
ARGUMENT REALLY WAS FOR MONSANTO
WHICH SAID THAT THE RELIANCE ON
THE SO-CALLED PATENT EXHAUSTION
DOCTRINE BY THE FARMER IN THIS
CASE JUST DID NOT CARRY THE DAY.
I SHOULD TELL YOU A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE PATENT EXHAUSTION
DOCTRINE.
>> Brown: PLEASE DO.
IT BASICALLY SAYS THAT AFTER
AN INVENTOR AUTHORIZES THE SALE
OF HIS PATENTED INVENTION OR
ARTICLE, THE BUYER CAN USE IT OR
SELL IT.
BUT WHAT THE BUYER CAN'T DO IS
MAKE COPIES OF IT.
THERE'S A VERY BASIC REASON FOR
THAT.
BECAUSE IF A BUYER COULD MAKE
COPIES AND THEN SELL THOSE
COPIES AND SOMEBODY ELSE WOULD
MAKE COPIES OF THE COPIES,
PRETTY SOON THERE WOULD BE NO
VALUE TO THE PATENT THAT THE
INVENTOR HOLDS.
AND THE LAW ALLOWS PATENT
PROTECTION NOW FOR ABOUT 20
YEARS.
SO EVEN THOUGH MONSANTO RIGHT
NOW HAS A MONOPOLY ON ITS
SOYBEANS, IT WON'T HAVE IT
FOREVER.
BUT THIS FARMER INFRINGED THE
PATENT BY... HE THOUGHT HE HAD A
WAY AROUND THE AGREEMENT WITH
MONSANTO.
THAT WAS TO BUY SOYBEANS FROM A
GRAIN ELEVATOR AND THEN PLANT
THEM.
HE ARGUED THAT BASICALLY HE WAS
USING THE SEEDS THE WAY THEY
WERE SUPPOSED TO BE USED.
BUT JUSTICE KAGAN WHO WROTE THE
MAJORITY OPINION SAID, NO, NO,
THE SEEDS BOUGHT FROM A GRAIN
ELEVATOR ARE SUPPOSED TO BE USED
FOR CONSUMPTION NOT FOR
PLANTING.
>> Brown: SO BEFORE WE GET TO
THE IMPLICATIONS FOR OTHER
TECHNOLOGIES, JUST STAYING ON
THIS CASE, ONE REASON WHY THIS
GOT SO MUCH ATTENTION IS
MONSANTO'S VERY DOMINANT
POSITION IN AGRICULTURE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
Brown: PARTICULARLY WITH
SEEDS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IN FACT, I THINK IT'S SOMETHING
LIKE 90 TO 95% SOYBEAN FARMERS
DO BUY FROM MONSANTO BECAUSE THE
BEANS ARE RESISTANT TO, AGAIN, A
MONSANTO PRODUCT THAT KILLS
WEEDS.
SO THEY'RE VERY VALUABLE TO THE
FARMER.
>> Brown: THE OTHER REASON, OF
COURSE, WHY IT GOT SO MUCH
ATTENTION WAS BECAUSE OF THE
POSSIBLE IMPLICATIONS FOR OTHER
NEW CUTTING-EDGE TECHNOLOGIES
SPECIFICALLY SO-CALLED
SELF-REPLICATING TECHNOLOGIES.
EXPLAIN TO US WHAT THAT MEANS.
>> WELL, JEFF, RIGHT NOW THERE'S
A LOT OF RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT GOING ON IN A NUMBER
OF INDUSTRIES.
BIOTECHNOLOGY, MEDICINE.
ONE OF THEM HAS TO DO WITH
SELF-GENERATING CELLS,
GENETICALLY MODIFIED CELLS.
ALSO IN WHAT THEY CALL
REGENERATIVE MEDICINE THAT
RELIES ON SELF-REPLICATING STEM
CELLS.
SO THE INDUSTRIES THAT ARE
INVOLVED IN THIS RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT ARE, OF COURSE, YOU
KNOW, VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
KIND OF PATENT PROTECTION
THEY'RE GOING TO GET FOR THEIR
INVENTIONS.
I THINK MONSANTO SPENDS IN
GENERAL OVER A BILLION DOLLARS A
YEAR IN RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT.
SO THESE COMPANIES WANT TO BE
ABLE TO RECOUP SOME OF THIS
INVESTMENT.
THERE IS THIS TENSION IN PATENT
LAW.
PATENT LAW PROTECTS THE
INVENTION LONG ENOUGH SO THAT
THE COMPANIES CAN RECOUP THEIR
INVESTMENT.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IT DOESN'T
LAST FOREVER BECAUSE THEY ALSO
WANT TO ENCOURAGE NEW INVENTIONS
BY OTHERS.
>> Brown: AT THE SAME TIME
THOUGH JUSTICE KAGAN WENT OUT OF
HER WAY TO SAY THAT THIS CASE IS
LIMITED TO THIS CASE, RIGHT?
TO THIS PARTICULAR TRANSACTION.
SO WHERE DOES THAT LEAVE THE LAW
FOR ALL THESE OTHER
TECHNOLOGIES?
>> WELL, I THINK THETCOMPANIES O
OTHER TYPES OF TECHNOLOGIES, DO
TAKE SOME COMFORT IN THE FACT
THAT THE COURT MADE CLEAR WHAT
THE PATENT EXHAUSTION DOCTRINE
REALLY DOES.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IT DOES LEAVE
OPEN FOR ANOTHER DAY WHETHER THE
INVENTION THAT THEY INVENT, IF
IT IS SELF-REPLICATING, HOW THE
SUPREME COURT IS GOING TO VIEW
PATENT PROTECTION FOR THAT
PARTICULAR INVENTION.
SO, THE COURT IS BEING CAUTIOUS
HERE AND LEAVING THE DOOR OPEN.
ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK THAT
COMPANIES DO TAKE SOME COMFORT
IN THE RULING.
>> Brown: AND THE FARMER
INVOLVED?
VERNON BOWMAN.
WHAT HAPPENS WITH HIM?
>> WELL, MR. BOWMAN WAS FOUND
THAT HE HAD INFRINGED MONSANTO'S
PATENT.
AND HE WAS... MONSANTO WAS
AWARDED ABOUT $85,000 FOR THE
INFRINGEMENT.
SO MR. BOWMAN IS EITHER STUCK
WITH PAYING THAT AWARD.
WE'LL HAVE TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN THE CASE GOES BACK BETWEEN
HIM AND MONSANTO.
>> Brown: MARCIA COYLE, AS
ALWAYS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE, JEFF.
Brown: ON-LINE YOU CAN FOLLOW
>> Brown: ONLINE, FOLLOW OUR
COVERAGE OF PENDING CASES ON OUR
SUPREME COURT PAGE.
THERE, YOU ALSO CAN WAH MYTC
CONVERSATION WITH MARCIA ABOUT
HER NEW BOOK ON KEY MOMENTS IN
THE ROBERTS COURT.
>> Woddruff: NEXT, TO PAKISTAN,
WHERE VOTES ARE STILL BEING
COUNTED AFTER SATURDAY'S
ELECTION, BUT ONE MAN IS ALREADY
CLAIMING VICTORY.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS.
FOLLOW.
>> Warner: ELECTION NIGHT SAW
SUPPORTERS OF THE PAKISTAN
MUSLIM LEAGUE PARTY OR P.M.L.N.
POUR INTO THE STREETS IN
TRIUMPH.
BY TODAY THEY APPEARED ON COURSE
TO WIN A MAJORITY IN THE NEW
PAKISTANI PARLIAMENT.
THAT VIRTUALLY GUARANTEES THAT
THEIR LEADER WILL BE PRIME
MINISTER.
HE SERVED TWICE BEFORE DURING
THE 1990s.
>> FOR THE SAKE OF THE NATION,
FOR YOUR SAKE, FOR THE SAKE OF
PAKISTAN'S 180 MILLION PEOPLE
AND IN ORDER TO END THIS
WRETCHED UNEMPLOYMENT, POVERTY
AND INFLATION, I WANT TO ASK MY
OPPONENTS TO COME AND SIT WITH
US.
>> Warner: CHIEF AMONG THOSE
OPPONENTS WAS A FORMER CRICKET
PLAYER TURNED FOUNDER OF THE
REFORM-MINDED "MOVEMENT FOR
JUSTICE" PARTY.
BUT IT FELL FAR SHORT OF
EXPECTATION.
HE SPOKE SUNDAY FROM A HOSPITAL
WHERE HE'S RECOVERING FROM A
SERIOUS FALL.
HE COMPLAINED OF VOTE RIGGIN RIG
>> THE ELECTN WAIOS RIGGED IN
DIFFERENT WAYS THROUGH THE
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Warner: THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME IN PAKISTAN'S HISTORY THAT
ONE CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT IS
POISED TO HAND OVER POWER
PEACEFULLY TO ANOTHER.
60% OF ELIGIBLE VOTERS TURNED
OUT.
THE MOST IN MORE THAN FOUR
DECADES.
>> I HAVE COME WITH THE HOPE
THAT A NEW AND GOOD PAKISTAN
WILL EMERGE FROM THIS VOTE.
GOD WILLING, PAKISTAN WILL BE A
PROSPEROUS COUNTRY.
PAKISTAN WILL BE A COUNTRY OR
PEOPLE FROM EVERYWHERE IN THE
WORLD WILL COME AND INVEST.
>> THEY VOTED AMID HEAVY
SECURITY, AND IN THE FACE OF
VIOLENCE BY THE PAKISTANI
TALIBAN.
IN ALL, 29 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN
ATTACKS ON ELECTION DAY
INCLUDING A BOMBING OUTSIDE A
CAMPAIGN KARACHI THAT
LEFT 11 DEAD.
THE U.S. HAS HAD ROCKY RELATIONS
WITH PAKISTAN'S GOVERNMENT.
WHEN IT COMES TO CRACKING DOWN
ON THE TALIBAN AND OTHER
MILITANTS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
AFGHANISTAN-PAKISTAN BORDER.
THERE ARE INDICATIONS THAT
DEALING WITH SHARIF MIGHT BE
DIFFICULT AS WELL.
TODAY HE SAID PAKISTAN HAS GOOD
RELATIONS WITH THE U.S., BUT HE
INSISTED THAT HIGHLY UNPOPULAR
U.S. DRONE STRIKES INSIDE
PAKISTAN MUST BE ADDRESSED.
MEANWHILE, CITY WORKERS IN THE
CAPITAL ISLAMABAD WERE TAKING
DOWN ELECTION POSTERS TODAY.
THE FINAL RESULTS ARE EXPECTED
BY MIDWEEK.
>> Warner: "NEW YORK TIMES"
CORRESPONDENT DECLAN WALSH HAS
BEEN COVERING PAKISTAN FOR
NEARLY TEN YEARS AND WAS
PLANNING TO FOLLOW THE COUNTRY'S
HISTORIC ELECTIONS FROM START TO
FINISH.
BUT LATE LAST WEEK, HE WAS TOLD
HIS VISA WAS BEING REVOKED
BECAUSE OF HIS "UNDESIRABLE
ACTIVITES."
HE WAS ORDERED TO LEAVE PAKISTAN
BY LATE SATURDAY NIGHT, ELECTION
NIGHT.
DECLAN WALSH JOINS ME NOW FROM
LONDON.
NICE TO HAVE YOU BACK.
TELL US ABOUT GETTING KICKED OUT
OF PAKISTAN.
WHAT HAPPEN?ED
WERE YOU SURPRISED?
>> I WAS VERY SURPRISED.
THIS ALL STARTED LAST WEDNESDAY
NIGHT WHEN I WAS SUMMONED BACK
TO MY HOME BY POLICE OFFICERS
WHO HAD A LETTER FOR ME THAT, AS
YOU SAID, CITED UNDESIRABLE
ACTIVES, ORDERS THE IMMEDIATE
REVOCATION OF MY VISA AND TOLD
ME I HAD 72 HOURS TO LEAVE THE
COUNTRY.
WE MADE VERY STREN RUSS
REPRESENTATIONS TO THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT, FIRSTLY TO TRY AND
UNDERSTAND WHAT WAS THE CAUSE
FOR THE VISA CANCELLATION AND
SENDLY TO HAVE THIS ORDER
RESCINDED.
UNFORTUNATELY, THAT DIDN'T
HAPPEN.
AFTER COVERING THE ELECTIONS ON
SATURDAY, EARLY SUNDAY MORNING,
I FLEW OUT OF PAKISTAN.
>> Warner: DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA
WHAT THEY MEANT BY "UNDESIRABLE
ACTIVITIES?"
WHAT THEY WERE SENSITIVE ABOUT,
ABOUT YOUR COVERAGE OR YOUR
REPORTING?
>> NO.
AND THIS IS THE QUESTION THAT WE
ASKED OFFICIALS AT REALLY EVERY
LEVEL OF THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT FROM THE INRMATFOION
MINISTRY UP TO THE AMBASSADORS,
MILITARY SPOKES PEOPLE.
WE DIDN'T RECEIVE AN ANSWER.
PRESUMABLY IT MAY HAVE SOMETHING
TO DO WITH A STORY THAT I HAVE
WRITTEN OR THAT IS FEATURED IN
THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
BUT REALLY THE PAKISTANI
AUTHORITIES HAVE NOT BEEN FORTH
COMING ON THIS QUESTION.
THAT'S THE FRUSTRATING THING
ABOUT THIS ISSUE FOR US.
>> Warner: NOW ON TO THE
ELECTION RESULTS, THERE WAS SUCH
A BUILD-UPSETTERLY IN THE
WESTERN PRESS AND IH THIS CRICK,
REFORM-MINDED CAMPAIGNER.
BUT IN THE END HE GOT TOTALLY
TROUNCED BY ONE OF THE TWO
OLD-TIME PARTIES.
WHAT HAPPENED THERE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
CERTAINLY EVERYONE IN THE
PROFESSIONAL PUNDITRY IT TOOK
THEM UNAWARES.
THERE WAS A VERY STRONG SENSE IN
THE LAST WEEKS OF CAMPAIGNING
THAT MR. KHAN WAS ON THE UP.
HE HAD A NUMBER OF VERY
HIGH-PROFILE RALLIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
HE HAD A VERY ENERGETIC
CAMPAIGN.
A LOT OF HIS SUPPORTERS WERE
YOUNG PEOPLE, MANY OF WHOM
HAVEN'T VOTED BEFORE.
THEY CAME OUT ON THE STREETS AND
WERE ACTIVE IN THE MEDIA.
HE A VERY HIGH TELEVISION
PRESENCE.
OF COURSE HE HAD THIS ACCIDENT
JUST A COUPLE OF DAYS BEFORE THE
END OF THE CAMPAIGN IN WHICH HE
FELL FROM THE STAGE, HURT
HIMSELF QUITE BADLY, INJURED HIS
BACK AND THEN GAVE A RATHER
DRAMATIC RALLY APPEARANCES BY
VIDEO LINKS FROM HIS HOSPITAL
BED.
THERE WAS A VERY STRONG SENSE
THAT THE MOMENTUM WAS BEHIND
MR. KHAN.
THIS WAS SEEN, IF YOU LIKE, AS A
BATTLE BETWEEN OLD-STYLE
POLITICS REPRESENTED BY
MR. SHARIF AND THE OUTGOING
PAKISTAN PEOPLE'S PARTY AND THIS
BRASH NEW-COMER MR. KHAN.
AT THE END OF THE DAY WHEN THE
RESULTS WERE COUNTED IT SEEMS
MR. PAKISTANI VOTERS ACTUALLY
PREFERRED TO GO WITH THE
TRADITIONAL CHOICE WITH
MR. SHARIF WHO HAS TWICE BEEN
PRIME MINISTER BEFORE.
HE TOOK THE MAJORITY OF THE
VOTES.
>> Warner: WHAT SORT OF CHANGES
HAS SHARIF SAID HE'S GOING TO
BRING IN AS OPPOSED TO THE
CURRENT PEOPLE OF THE PAKISTAN
PEOPLE'S PARTY?
>> MR. SHARIF HAS PROMISED TO
UNDO THE DAMAGE AT CRITICS HAVE
PUT IT THAT THE PREVIOUS
GOVERNMENT H DONADE OVER THE
LAST FIVE YEARS THE ECONOMY HAS
DECLINED QUITE SHARPLY.
ONE OF THE MOST PRESSING
PROBLEMS IN THE COUNTRY ARE THE
ELECTRICITY SHORTAGES.
IN SOME AREAS THE POWER CAN GO
OUT FOR 12, EVEN 18 HOURS AT A
TIME.
SO MR. SHARIF CAMPAIGNED VERY
HEAVILY ON THOSE ISSUES.
HE BLAMED THE PREVIOUS
GOVERNMENT FOR FAILING TO
REVERSE COURSE IN TERMS OF THE
ECONOMY.
AND HE SAYS THAT HE'S GOT A
STRONG RECORD TO TURN THE
COUNTRY AROUND.
OF COURSE, THE OTHER ISSUE THAT
PAKISTAN FACES ALMOST EQUALLY
PRESSINGLY IS THE TALIBAN
INSURGENCY.
ALL THE WAY THROUGH THE
ELECTION, THE TALIBAN ATTACKED
THE CANDIDATES FROM THE SECULAR
PARTIES.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
MR. SHARIF HAS LESS VOCAL ABOUT
AND CRITICS SAY WILL BE AN
EQUALLY PRESSING CHALLENGE FOR
HIM WHEN HE COMES TO POWER.
>> Warner: SO WHAT WILL THIS
MEAN FOR THE U.S.-PAKISTAN
RELATIONSHIP?
BOTH IN TERMS OF COOPERATING
AGAINST MILITANTS, THE TALIBAN,
AND OTHER GROUPS AND ALSO IN
TERMS OF THE U.S. PLANS TO
WITHDRAW MOST OF ITS TROOPS, OUR
TROOPS, FROM AFGHANISTAN NEXT
YEAR?
>> WELL, MR. SHARIF IS A
CONSERVATIVE POLL TISCH YAFN.
HE'S HAD DEALINGS WITH THE U.S.
IN THE PAST IN 1999 PRESIDENT
BILL CLINTON NEGOTIATED WITH
MR. SHARIF TO DEESCALATE A
NUCLEAR CONFLICT WITH INDIA.
ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL, HE HAD
SOME TOUGH RHETORIC FOR THE U.S.
HE SAID HE WOULD TRY TO REDRAW
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
PAKISTAN AND THE UNITED STATES
WHERE PAKISTAN WOULD BE LESS
DEPENDENT ON AMERICAN SUPPORT.
THEN AGAIN, THAT MAY JUST HAVE
BEEN CAMPAIGN RHETORIC BECAUSE
IT SEEMS THAT PAKISTAN MAY
REQUIRE AMERICAN SUPPORT IN THE
COMING WEEKS OR MONTHS TO SEEK A
BAILOUT FROM THE INTERNATIONAL
MONETARY FUND.
ON THE TERRORISM FRONT,
MR. SHARIF HAS BEEN MEASURED IN
HIS CRITICISM OF THE TALIBAN,
BUT GIVEN THE SORT OF ATTACKS
WE'VE SEEN ON THE DEMOCRATIC
SYSTEM IN THE LAST NUMBER OF
WEEKS IT SEEMS INEVITABLE THAT
HE WILL HAVE TO FACE UP TO THAT
PROBLEM.
WHETHER HE WILL DO SO IN A
MANNER THAT WILL SATISFY, IF YOU
LIKE, AMERICAN OFFICIALS REMAINS
TO BE.
>> Warner: A STORMY
RELATIONSHIP.
DE CLAN WALSH OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Brown: NEXT, THE VERDICT IN A
MAJOR HUMAN RIGHTS CASE, ONE
WE'VE BEEN FOLLOWING IN
GUATEMALA.
LAST WEDNESDAY, NEWSHOUR SCIENCE
CORRESPONDENT MILES O'BRIEN
REPORTED ON THE FORENSIC SCIENCE
BEING USED IN THE GENOCIDE TRIAL
OF THE MAN WHO RULED THAT
COUNTRY SOME 30 YEARS AGO.
LATE LAST WEEK, A JUDGE ISSUED A
LANDMARK CONVICTION.
HARI IS BACK WITH THAT STORY.
THE RULING CAME FRIDAY
EVENING.
FORMER DICTATOR EPHRAIM RIOS
MONTT WAS GUILTY IN THE MASSACRE
OF MORE THAN 1700 MAYAN INDIANS
IN THE EARLY 1980s.
HE WAS A GENERAL WHEN HE SEIZED
POWER IN 1982 THROUGH A MILITARY
COUPs RULING FOR JUST 18
MONTHS AT THE HEIGHT OF
GUATEMALA'S LONG CIVIL WAR.
RIOS MONTT HAS INSISTED HE FEW
NOTHING OF ANY MASSACRES LAYING
THE BLAME TO HIS FIELD
COMMANDERS.
IN CLOSING ARGUMENTS AT HIS LAWO
GROUP WAS SINGLED OUT.
>> WE SAY IRREFUTABLY IN
GUATEMALA THERE WAS NEVER
GENOCIDE BECAUSE PEOPLE WERE NOT
PERSECUTED BECAUSE OF THEIR
ETHNICITY.
>> WITNESSES TESTIFIED THAT THE
DICTATOR DID IN FACT OVERSEE A
CAMPAIGN OF RAPE, EXECUTIONS AND
RAZING OF MAYAN VILLAGES.
RIOS MONTT WAS IMMUNE FROM
PROSECUTION UNTIL LAST YEAR.
NOW AT AGE 86 HE FACES A
SENTENCE OF 80 YEARS IN PRISON.
HIS LAWYERS HAVE PROMISED TO
APPEAL.
THE PRODUCER ON MILES O'BRIEN'S
EARLIER REPORT IS WITH US NOW.
HOW SIGNIFICANT WAS THIS TRIAL
FOR THE PEOPLE THERE?
>> THIS IS HUGE.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IN MODERN
HISTORY THAT A DOMESTIC COURT
HAS CONVICTED A FORMER HEAD OF
STATE ON THESE KINDS OF CHARGES:
GENOCIDE, CRIMES AGAINST
HUMANITY BUT FOR BOTH SIDES IN
THIS CASE FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
SUPPORT THE MILITARY, WHO
SUPPORT RIOS MONTT AND FOR THE
NATION'S MAJORITY INDIGENOUS
POPULATION, THIS IS HUGE.
YOU KNOW, FOR MANY PEOPLE THIS
REOPENS OLD WOUNDS.
THE COUNTRY'S 36-YEAR CIVIL WAR
IS NOT THAT LONG AGO.
AND LITERALLY EVERYONE IN THIS
COUNTRY IS STILL TOUCHED BY THAT
LEGACY IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER.
SOME PEOPLE VERY DIRECTLY.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU WERE IN THE
COURTROOM DURING THE VERDICT.
FOR THOSE OF US NOT FOLLOWING
YOU ON TWITTER AND OTHER SOCIAL
MEDIA WHAT WAS THE SCENE LIKE.
>> COMPLETELY SURREAL.
THE COURTROOM HOLDS ABOUT 400
PEOPLE.
THERE WERE SEATS FOR 400 PEOPLE.
I THINK THERE WERE EASILY 500,
POSSIBLY 600 PEOPLE PACKED INTO
THAT COURTROOM.
WHEN THE VERDICT WAS READ, YOU
KNOW, THE JUDGE BEGAN BY
EXPLAINING WHY RIOS MONTT WAS
CONSIDERED BY THE COURT TO BE
GUILTY OF GENOCIDE OR CRIMES
AGAINST HUMANITY.
WHEN SHE ACTUALLY GOT TO THE
POINT OF SAY THAT HE WAS GUILTY,
THERE WERE CLAPS.
THERE WERE CHEERS.
THEN PEOPLE KIND OF CALMED DOWNE
COURT HAD TO SAY.
AND THEN AFTER SHE SLAMMED THE
GAVEL ON THE DESK, TOTAL CHAOS
BROKE OUT.
THERE WAS, YOU KNOW, A SWARM OF
CAMERAMEN WHO JUST ENCIRCLED THE
DEFENSE TABLE AND SPECIFICALLY
RIOS MONTT LOOKING FOR THAT SHOT
OF THE CENTURY OF THIS MAN'S
REACTION.
THIS MAN WHOSE LEGACY IS
INDELIBLY IMPRINTED ON THIS
COUNTRY.
AND THEN BACK IN THE GALLERY
BEHIND WHERE I WAS SITTING WITH
MEMBERS OF THE PRESS, YOU KNOW,
HUNDREDS AND HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
WERE CHANTING, "JUSTICE,
JUSTICE."
AND "YES, IT WAS GENOCIDE" WAY
WAS A RALLYING CRY ON TWITTER
AND IN THE STREETS IN WEEKS
BEFORE THIS VERDICT ARRIVED.
YOU COULD SEE AS YOU LOOKED
AROUND THE COURTROOM, HARI, THAT
PEOPLE WERE WEEPING.
THERE WERE MOTHERS HOLDING THEIR
CHILDREN AND KIND OF SWAYING TO
THE RHYTHM.
THE GRANDMOTHERS WHO HAD
TESTIFIED OF BEING GANG RAPED BY
20 SOLDIERS AT A TIME FOR WEEKS
ON END.
MANY OF THESE WOMEN WEREN'T
CHEERING.
THEY WERE WEEPING.
IT WAS JUST SUCH A POWERFUL,
POWERFUL MOMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW SIGNIFICANT
IS IT THAT THEY WERE EVEN ABLE
TO REACH A VERDICT?
>> I THINK IT'S EXTRAORDINARY
THAT THE TRIAL CAME TO ANY
CONCLUSION AT ALL.
YOU KNOW, THE U.S. EMBASSY HERE
IN GUATEMALA ISSUED A STATEMENT
TODAY URGING THE SOCIETY AND THE
GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT TO RESPECT
THE COURT'S OUTCOME.
I THINK THAT EVERYBODY, YOU
KNOW, PART OF WHY THIS MATTERS
IS BECAUSE OF THE QUESTION OF
WHETHER RIOS MONTT IS AN
INDIVIDUAL IS GUILTY.
BUT PART OF WHY THIS TRIAL
MATTERS IS THAT THE JUDICIAL
SYSTEM HERE IS SO FRAGILE.
IT'S JUST INCREDIBLE THAT ANY
CASE OF THIS SUBSTANCE COULD
COME TO A COMPLETION IN A
COUNTRY WHERE A TINY FRACTION OF
MURDERS, JUST MURDERS OF
EVERYDAY CITIZENS NOW ARE EVER
BROUGHT TO TRIAL LET ALONE
CONVICTED.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT HAPPENS
TO THESE VICTIMS NOW?
IS THERE EXE SAYINGS?
WHO PAYS?
>> VICTIMS' REPRESENTATIVES SAY
THAT, LOOK, THESE INDIGENOUS
PEOPLE WERE ROBBED OF THEIR
LAND.
THEY WERE DISPLACED FROM THEIR
THERE WERE SUBSIST ENS FARMERS.
LAND.
MANY MANY FAMILIES IN THAT
THERE WERE SUBSIST ENS FARMERS.
REGION LOST THEIR BREAD WINNERS.
MANY MANY FAMILIES IN THAT
WHO SHOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
REGION LOST THEIR BREAD WINNERS.
THEM?
WHO SHOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
RIOS MONTT ESTATE SHOULD PAY
THEM?
THAT OUT?
RIOS MONTT ESTATE SHOULD PAY
WHAT ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT OF
THAT OUT?
GUATEMALA?
WHAT ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT OF
I ALMOST THINK THAT THIS IS THE
GUATEMALA?
MORE CONTENTIOUS ISSUE THAN
I ALMOST THINK THAT THIS IS THE
WHETHER OR NOT RIOS MONTT AS AN
MORE CONTENTIOUS ISSUE THAN
INDIVIDUAL CAN BE FOUND GUILTY
WHETHER OR NOT RIOS MONTT AS AN
OF THESE CRIMES.
INDIVIDUAL CAN BE FOUND GUILTY
THE IDEA OF REPARATIONS TO
OF THESE CRIMES.
VICTIMS IN THIS CASE IS
THE IDEA OF REPARATIONS TO
SOMETHING THAT MANY PEOPLE IN
VICTIMS IN THIS CASE IS
GUATEMALA ARE... HAVE A VERY
SOMETHING THAT MANY PEOPLE IN
HOSTILE REACTION TO.
GUATEMALA ARE... HAVE A VERY
SO, YOU KNOW, I SPOKE WITH SOME
HOSTILE REACTION TO.
OF THE OBSERVERS AND THE
SO, YOU KNOW, I SPOKE WITH SOME
CRIMINAL WITESF THEM SAID, YOU
OF THE OBSERVERS AND THE
KNOW, EVEN ASSUMING THAT THE
CRIMINAL WITESF THEM SAID, YOU
GENERAL RIOS MONTT STAYS IN
KNOW, EVEN ASSUMING THAT THE
JAIL, HE'LL BE FED EVERY NIGHT.
GENERAL RIOS MONTT STAYS IN
THIS WOMAN SAID.
JAIL, HE'LL BE FED EVERY NIGHT.
WHAT ABOUT US?
THIS WOMAN SAID.
WE STILL HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
WHAT ABOUT US?
WHETHER WE WILL DIE OF HUNGER.
WE STILL HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
>> Sreenivasan: THANKS SO MUCH.
WHETHER WE WILL DIE OF HUNGER.
MY PLEASURE, HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AND AN UPDATE ON
MY PLEASURE, HARI.
TODAY'S PROCEEDINGS.
>> Woodruff: AND AN UPDATE ON
AFTER HARI'S INTERVIEW, THE
TODAY'S PROCEEDINGS.
COURT ORDERED REPARATIONS FOR
AFTER HARI'S INTERVIEW, THE
VICTIMS, INCLUDING OFFICIAL
COURT ORDERED REPARATIONS FOR
APOLOGIES BY THE STATE AND A
VICTIMS, INCLUDING OFFICIAL
NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE.
APOLOGIES BY THE STATE AND A
BUT THE VICTIMS WON'T GET THE
NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE.
LAND THEY REQUESTED OR ANY
BUT THE VICTIMS WON'T GET THE
MONETARY COMPENSATION FROM THE
LAND THEY REQUESTED OR ANY
GOVERNMENT.
MONETARY COMPENSATION FROM THE
THE A.P. REPORTED THAT RIOS
GOVERNMENT.
MONTT HAD BEEN TAKEN TO A
THE A.P. REPORTED THAT RIOS
MILITARY HOSPITAL AFTER
MONTT HAD BEEN TAKEN TO A
FAINTING.
MILITARY HOSPITAL AFTER
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT,
FAINTING.
BRINGING CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN-
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT,
AMERICAN POETRY INTO THE PUBLIC
BRINGING CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN-
EYE.
AMERICAN POETRY INTO THE PUBLIC
>> I THINK WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
EYE.
TO ADMIT...
>> I THINK WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
>> Brown: NEED TO GO PLAN THE
TO ADMIT...
SUMMER ISSUE OF THE LITERACY
>> Brown: NEED TO GO PLAN THE
JOURNAL KALALU EDITOR CHARLES
SUMMER ISSUE OF THE LITERACY
HENRY RILE FINDS AN
JOURNAL KALALU EDITOR CHARLES
EMBARRASSMENT.
HENRY RILE FINDS AN
>> WE HAVE SO MUCH STUFF.
EMBARRASSMENT.
I'M TRYING TO HOLD BACK SO THAT
>> WE HAVE SO MUCH STUFF.
WE WON'T OVERRUN.
I'M TRYING TO HOLD BACK SO THAT
>> Brown: HE WAS RAISED ON A
WE WON'T OVERRUN.
FARM HIS PARENTS OWNED IN
>> Brown: HE WAS RAISED ON A
ALABAMA, HE STARTED THE JOURNAL
FARM HIS PARENTS OWNED IN
IN 1975.
ALABAMA, HE STARTED THE JOURNAL
A HOME FOR SOUTHERN BLACK
IN 1975.
WRITERS WHO HE SAYS WERE MOSTLY
A HOME FOR SOUTHERN BLACK
IGNORED BY JOURNALS OF THE DAY
WRITERS WHO HE SAYS WERE MOSTLY
IN BOTH THE SOUTH AND NORTH.
IGNORED BY JOURNALS OF THE DAY
>> THE PURPOSE WAS TO IDENTIFY,
IN BOTH THE SOUTH AND NORTH.
NURTURE, AND PROMOTE AND PUBLISH
>> THE PURPOSE WAS TO IDENTIFY,
NEW BLACK WRITERS.
NURTURE, AND PROMOTE AND PUBLISH
>> WE'LL JUST KEEP GOING AND
NEW BLACK WRITERS.
KEEP GOING.
>> WE'LL JUST KEEP GOING AND
>> Brown: AT AGE 74 AND FOR THE
KEEP GOING.
LAST 12 YEARS BASED AT TEXAS A&M
>> Brown: AT AGE 74 AND FOR THE
UNIVERSITY, HE CAN LOOK BACK ON
LAST 12 YEARS BASED AT TEXAS A&M
REMARKABLE SUCCESS.
UNIVERSITY, HE CAN LOOK BACK ON
HIS JOURNAL HAS HELPED INTRODUCE
REMARKABLE SUCCESS.
SEVERAL GENERATIONS OF NOW
HIS JOURNAL HAS HELPED INTRODUCE
HIGH-PROFILE WRITERS, SOME OF
SEVERAL GENERATIONS OF NOW
WHOM WE FEATURED ON THE
HIGH-PROFILE WRITERS, SOME OF
NEWSHOUR.
WHOM WE FEATURED ON THE
FORMER POET LAUREATE READ DOVE.
NEWSHOUR.
>> SING-SONG.
FORMER POET LAUREATE READ DOVE.
WHEN I WAS YOUNG THE MOON SPOKE
>> SING-SONG.
IN RIDDLES AND THE STARS RHYMED.
WHEN I WAS YOUNG THE MOON SPOKE
I WAS A NEW TOY WAITING FOR MY
IN RIDDLES AND THE STARS RHYMED.
OWNER TO PICK ME UP.
I WAS A NEW TOY WAITING FOR MY
>> Brown: NATIONAL BOOK AWARD
OWNER TO PICK ME UP.
WINNER TERRENCE HAYES.
>> Brown: NATIONAL BOOK AWARD
>> ROOT.
WINNER TERRENCE HAYES.
MY PARENTS WOULD HAVE HAD ME
>> ROOT.
BELIEVE THERE WAS NO SUCH THING
MY PARENTS WOULD HAVE HAD ME
AS RACE THERE IN THE WILD
BELIEVE THERE WAS NO SUCH THING
BACKYARD OUR KNEES BLACK WITH
AS RACE THERE IN THE WILD
STORE BOUGHT GRASS AND DIRT.
BACKYARD OUR KNEES BLACK WITH
>> Brown: AND THE CURRENT
STORE BOUGHT GRASS AND DIRT.
LAUREATE NATASHA TRETHEWEY.
>> Brown: AND THE CURRENT
>> ELEGY, FOR MY FATHER.
LAUREATE NATASHA TRETHEWEY.
I THINK BY NOW THE RIVER MUST BE
>> ELEGY, FOR MY FATHER.
THICK WITH SALMON.
LATE AUGUST I IMAGINE IT AS IT
WAS THAT MORNING, DRIZZLED,
NEEDLING THE SURFACE LIKE A NET
SETTLING AROUND US SNEEF THESE
AND 82 OTHER POETS ARE NOW PART
OF THE LATEST AMBITIOUS PROJECT:
ANGLES OF ASCENT, A NEW NORTON
ANTHOLOGY.
>> I WANTED TO DEMONSTRATE THE
INFINITE VARIETY OF VOICES AND
CON CONTENT AND STYLE AND IDEAS
IN CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN-AMERICAN
POETRY.
>> Brown: THE ANTHOLOGY BEGINS
WITH POEMS FROM TWO LITERACY
GIANTS.
FOLLOWED BY POETS INCLUDING ARE
WRITING AT THE HEIGHT OF THE
BLACK POWER MOVEMENT BUT THE
MAJORITY OF THE BOOK FOCUSES ON
POET'S WRITING AFTER THE
TURBULENT CIVIL RIGHTS ERA.
>> WHAT FASCINATED ME ABOUT THE
CONTEMPORARY WRITER IS THAT TURN
FROM THE EXTERNAL WORLD INTO THE
INTERIOR WORLD.
NOT THE OBSESSION WITH, QUOTE,
THE STRUGGLE.
NOT THAT THAT IS NOT A VALID
SUBJECT.
BUT THAT HAS BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT
OVER AND OVER.
AND THESE WRITERS WERE NOT
COMMITTING THEMSELVES TO THE
STRUGGLE.
THEY WERE COMMITTING THEIR
POETRY TO ITSELF, TO ITS CRAFT,
TO ITS BEAUTY.
>> Brown: THAT'S A GOOD THING,
RIGHT?
>> OH, YEAH, THAT'S VERY
POSITIVE.
I THINK IT'S TERRIBLY
REVOLUTIONARY.
THESE POETS USE BEING BLACK TO
WRITE ABOUT LARGER SUBJECTS.
>> Brown: HE SAYS THE CHANGE HAS
NOT ONLY BROADENED THE POETRY
BUT THE AUDIENCE AS WELL.
>> IF I'M ABLE TO GET YOU TO
FEEL WHAT I'M THINKING ABOUT IN
A POEM AND YOU CAN IDENTIFY WITH
IT AND YOU PROCEED TO QUOTE MY
POEM, THAT'S REVOLUTIONARY.
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE EARLIER
NON-AFRICAN-AMERICANS DID NOT GO
AROUND QUOTING AFRICAN-AMERICAN
POETS.
THIS IS ANOTHER COVER...
>> Brown: IN ADDITION TO
DISCOVERING NEW POETS, HE IS
ALSO ALWAYS ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
NEW BLACK ARTISTS FROM AROUND
THE WORLD.
>> COLLECTING ART IS IS AN
ADDICTION FOR ME.
I DON'T KNOW.
I JUST FEEL THAT I HAVE TO HAVE
THINGS AROUND ME THAT ARE
BEAUTIFUL.
>> MANY OF THE PAINTINGS END UP
ON THE COVERS OF THE JOURNALS.
AND THIS FALL HE'LL PUBLISH A
SPECIAL EDITION DEVOTED JUST TO
ART.
IN BOTH ART AND POETRY, HE SAYS,
THE IDEA IS TO PROMOTE THE
UNDISCOVERED OR IGNORED.
>> I'M PREPARED TO DO BATTLE.
THAT HAS BEEN MY WHOLE LIFE.
TO DO BATTLE WITH WHATEVER I
CONFRONT.
THAT IS ANTI-COMMUNITY.
NOT WITH LOUD, SCREAMING VOICES,
MIND YOU.
OR SOUNDING REVOLUTIONARY.
BUT DOING THE WORK NECESSARY TO
DO.
>> Brown: MANY MANY YEARS LATER
YOU STILL ARE ON THE MISSION.
>> I'M STILL ON THE BATTLEFIELD.
THAT IS MY NATURE NOW.
IT'S IN THE D.N.A. PRACTICALLY.
>> Brown: THE NEW ANTHOLOGY IS
ANGLES OF ASCENT.
CHARLES HENRY ROWL THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I ENJOYED IT.
>> Brown: ONLINE, YOU CAN WATCH
SOME OF THE POETS INCLUDED IN
THE ANTHOLOGY READ FROM THEIR
WORKS, INCLUDING NATASHA
TRETHEWEY, RITA DOVE, AND KEVIN
YOUNG.
THAT'S ON OUR ART BEAT PAGE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED TARGETING
OF CONSERVATIVE GROUPS BY THE
I.R.S. "OUTRAGEOUS," AND
REPUBLICANS SCHEDULED THE FIRST
CONGRESSIONAL HEARING ON THE
SCANDAL.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SECRETLY
SUBPOENAED TWO MONTHS OF A.P.
PHONE RECORDS FROM A YEAR AGO.
FEDERAL OFFICIALS WOULD NOT
EXPLAIN.
BUT IT MAY BE TIED TO A
PUBLISHED STORY ABOUT LEAKS
INVOLVING A FOILD TERROR PLOT.
AND POPULAR PSYCHOLOGIST
DR. JOYCE BROTHERS DIED IN NEW
YORK CITY AT AGE 85.
>> Brown: ONLINE, FAMILIES IN
THE U.S. AFFECTED BY THEIR
MIXED-IMMIGRATION STATUS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: FAMILIES FACE
DIFFICULT DECISIONS WHEN ONE
SPOUSE IS A U.S. CITIZEN AND THE
OTHER LACKS LEGAL STATUS.
LISTEN TO THE STORIES OF FIVE
FAMILIES WHO HAD TO DECIDE
BETWEEN LEAVING THE U.S. TO
REMAIN TOGETHER OR TO LIVE
COUNTRIES APART.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE.
AND TONIGHT ON INDEPENDENT LENS,
OSCAR-NOMINATED DOCUMENTARY "THE
INVISIBLE WAR."
FILMMAKER KIRBY DICK UNCOVERS
STORIES OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE
MILITARY.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE LOOK AT A PLAN TO
HELP CITIES COME BACK AFTER
DISASTERS SUCH AS SUPERSTORM
SANDY.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.